# TMX2Atlas

## About
*TMX2Atlas* takes a TMX file created with the excellent [Tiled][1] map editor, cuts its tilesets up into textures, pops those textures into a SpriteKit atlas, then writes the TMX metadata (including layers and tile locations) to an easy to access plist.

The goal of *TMX2Atlas* is to make it easy for SpriteKit game developers to incorporate [Tiled][1] into their pipelines (and thus remove any temptation on the part of the SpriteKit community to reinvent this particular map-editing wheel). It takes a different approach from other TMX-realted projects in that it doesn't use the TMX file itself at runtime. Instead, it breaks the TMX file into textures (in an atlas) and metadata (in a plist) that can be added to your project and customized in a more SpriteKit-friendly way.

[1]: http://www.mapeditor.org
[2]: http://koboldkit.com


## Known Issues & Limitations
* External tilesets are not currently supported. You can import an external tileset by selecting it in the "Tilesets" panel and clicking the "Import Tileset" button (on the bottom left).
* Layers have to be in XML format. In *Tiled*, select the "Map" menu and click on the "Map Properties…" item. Make sure the "Layer Format" dropdown is set to "XML".
* Object layers and image layers are not supported.
* Embedded tileset images are not currently supported. I can't for the life of me figure out how to get TiledQT to embed images, so I can't test it. If you use this an know how to do it, let me know.
* Tile-flipping is not recorded in the plist metadata. It's kind of a pain and I never use it, but if you do, let me know.
* The plist containing TMX metadata is called `[map name].tmx.plist`. The "tmx" is in there purely to disambiguate it from the atlas plist file generated by Xcode (see [this Stack Overflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20851682/atlaswithname-throws-unsupported-texture-atlas-format-exception) for deatils). If there are ideas for a better name, I'm all ears.
* No tests :frowning: Nothing but coal for me this christmas.
